---
layout: post
title: death by 80 20 rule
date:   2023-04-08 02:17:15 -500
categories: personal
---

holy shit it took me soooooo long to make a picture frame border around the pizza on this site's brand new [pizza page](/pizza).

I just did a career development workshop kinda thing for DevLUp FSU and had to explain the 80/20 rule to people concerning website development - with 20% percent of the time invested, you'll get 80% of the result, and the remaining 80% of the work will be spent on 20% of the work. An example I had was a movement controller from a game jam we just discussed in that meeting, where everything worked nearly immediately except the player rotating to face the direction of movement, and that work that resulted in only one line of actual code took up roughly 80% of the time we spent on the movement.

So, the next day, thinking about websites and stuff because of the workshop, I decide to throw my own site a bone late at night, and I pitch some page ideas to my girlfriend over the phone. The one she picks is the pizza page. Awesome. Simple. Great.

It took maybe 2 minutes to write "Hello blah blah pizza page" and put a picture of a pizza. Done. Great. Send it.

But, I wanted to put a fancy golden picture frame around the pizza. I thought it would be funny, hilarious, superb, even quaint, if you will.

I spent the last three hours putting a picture frame around the pizza.

# Breakdown

No, screw you pizza picture frame, you don't get to be dignified with a breakdown on how you work because you're stupid and it's 2:30 in the morning. I can't deal with how simple you are and how stupid I am at this point in time.